# Stock-Price-Prediction

The goal of our project was to see if we could predict the directional stock price movement of Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft using various technical indicators based on past prices.  We used the yfinance library as a way to access the historical stock data from Yahoo! Finance to gather the opening, high, low, and closing prices as well as volume.  We used the time period from January 1, 2014 to November 8, 2019 to train and test our model (our testing data is the most recent 12 months).

For our predictions, we decided to test our model's ability to forecast directional price movement for the next day, 5 day, and 20 day periods.  Our project focused on predicting the 5 day directional price movement because that was where our model had the most success.   

Our model resulted in a positive 5-day return on average over the entire length of the backtesting period.  Due to the low R-squared value it is pretty difficult to determine the reason for our model's success.  We did notice that if we adjusted the time periods by a few weeks in terms of the testing period, the model statistics change quite drastically which did not surprise us.  Since our predictions involve holding a position for 5 days without hedging or closing the position early, our returns were very sensitive to the downside when the market experiences volatility.  Higher volatility periods tended to correspond with much lower returns than the average and often times negative returns for those periods.  Our model appears to be more successful on long calls than short ones which is in line with our expectations considering the market has been in a strong uptrend over the time period we trained and tested our model.  When broken down by ticker, our model appears to have the most success predicting the movement of Facebook, Google, and Microsoft, on average.

The 5-Day-Prediction folder contains an image of our model's direction price prediction based on the closing price of the date in the image.  The number is predicting the directional movement of the stock price from the closing price of that day to the closing price 5 days in the future.  A positive number indicates the user should go long that stock and a negative number indicates the user should short the stock.  Since our model generates its prediction at the end of the trading day, a positive number would suggest to go long the stock the following day at or below the closing price of the previous day.  So if, for example, Apple closed at $260 and our model generated a positive number for the next 5-day movement, then one should go long the stock the following day if the price is within a few cents of $260 or less.  If for some reason Apple opens the following day at $264, then it would be best to not act on the trading signal since the price has deviated too much from where the signal was given.

The Recent-Performance-Breakdown folder contains an image that shows some custom performance metrics we used to measure our portfolio.  It includes the accuracy of our predictions, the average weekly percentage returns if the predictions were acted on, a breakdown of long vs. short prediction performance, etc.
